# Aquanauts
## Summary

The Exxon Valdez oil spill of 1989 is generally considered to have the largest environmental impact of any oil spill to date. Ocean Scientists at Prince William Sound have been using an underwater profiler to monitor environmental factors. The platform has an anchor that holds it at a specified depth. The platform goes to the surface of the water once a day to transmit a signal that it is still alive. The data collected on ocean life and ocean currents is not transmitted and must be retrieved by scientists. The collected data gives scientists information on how the location and its inhabitants are recovering. There are multiple ways this platform can be improved and updated. Currently, someone must retrieve the platform every few weeks in order to charge the battery and extract data. Over time the battery life has decreased, further increasing the maintenance required. If this maintenance could be decreased that would be a great improvement for the platform. Currently, it is very difficult and expensive to replace the battery. A battery that can be serviced by the scientists themselves would be ideal. The platform has many sensors on board to detect ocean life such as plankton. The current solution to classifying plankton is through the use of machine learning. However, there is room for improvement in this component. There is a weather buoy nearby that could potentially be used to install components on for communication with the platform. Our team is identifying which features/issues to focus our project on.
